In any ML project, after you define the
business use case and establish the
success criteria, the process of delivering an ML model to production
involves many steps. These include data extraction, data analysis, data preparation, model training,
model evaluation, model validation, model
serving, and model monitoring. These steps can be completed manually or by an
automatic pipeline. The level of automation
of these steps defines the maturity
of the ML process. Many ML professionals build and deploy their
models manually. This is called maturity level 0. Other ML practitioners perform continuous training
of their models by automating the ML pipeline. This is maturity level 1. Finally, the most
mature approach completely automates and
integrates the ML training, validation, and
deployment phases. This is maturity level 2. Let's look at each
of these levels of automation in a
little more detail. At the basic level of
maturity or Level 0, many teams have
data scientists and ML researchers who can build
state-of-the-art models, but their process
for building and deploying ML models
is entirely manual. The characteristics
of MLOps level 0 are a manual script-driven
and interactive process, a disconnection between
ML and operation teams, infrequent releases iterations, no continuous integration, continuous delivery or
continuous deployment. Deployment refers to
the prediction service and the lack of active
performance monitoring. Check the documentation
to learn more about the characteristics and
challenges of MLOps level 0. The goal of MLOps
level 1 is to perform continuous training of the model by automating the ML pipeline. This lets you achieve
the continuous delivery of the model prediction service. To automate the process of using new data to retrain
models in production, you must introduce
automated data and model validation
steps to the pipeline, as well as pipeline triggers
and metadata management. The characteristics
of MLOps level 1 are rapid experiment, continuous training of
the model in production, experimental
operational symmetry, modularized code for
components and pipelines, continuous deployment of models, which means continuous
delivery of models and automated
pipeline deployment. To learn more about the
characteristics and challenges of MLOps level 1, check the documentation at
the end of this section. One important note is that, to enable ML
continuous training, you must add a couple of components such as data
and model validation, feature store,
metadata management, and ML pipeline triggers
to the architecture. You'll explore all of
these components in upcoming courses of this series. MLOps level 2 can be characterized as
continuous integration, continuous deployment or CI/CD pipeline automation
because you need a robust automated CI/CD system for a rapid and reliable update of the pipelines in production. This automated CI/CD system lets ML practitioners rapidly explore new ideas around
feature engineering, model architecture,
and hyperparameters. MLOps level 2 achieves
this automation, thanks to the following
components: source control, test and build services,
deployment services, model registry, feature store, ML metadata store, ML
pipeline orchestrator. In any ML project, after you define the
business use case and establish the
success criteria, the process of delivering an ML model to production
involves many steps. These include development
and experimentation. You iteratively test
new ML algorithms and new modeling where the experiment steps
are orchestrated. The output of this stage
is the source code for the ML pipeline steps that are then pushed to a
source repository. Then pipeline
continuous integration. You build source code
and run various tests. The outputs of this stage are pipeline components
such as packages, executables, and artifacts that are deployed in a later stage. Next is pipeline
continuous delivery. You deploy the
artifacts produced by the CI stage to the
target environment. The output of this stage is a deployed pipeline with the new implementation
of the model. Then there's
automated triggering. The pipeline is
automatically executed in production based on a schedule or in response to a trigger. The output of this stage is a trained model that is
pushed to the model registry. The next is model
continuous delivery. You serve the trained model as a prediction service
for the predictions. The output of this stage is a deployed model
prediction service. Finally, monitoring. You collect statistics on the model performance
based on live data. The output of this stage
is a trigger to execute the pipeline or to execute
a new experiment cycle. These steps can be completed manually or by an
automatic pipeline. In the full stack, for a machine learning
system with Vertex AI, you can use Vertex AI Feature
Store for feature store, Vertex AI workbench
for model development, Cloud Source Repositories
as your code repository, Cloud Build for training
operationalization, Artifact Registry for
your pipeline components, Vertex AI Pipelines for
your training pipeline, Vertex AI Model Registry
as your model registry, Vertex AI ML Metadata
for your ML metadata, Cloud Build for
model deployment, Vertex AI Prediction
for prediction serving, BigQuery for serving logs, Vertex AI Model Monitoring
and Vertex Explainable AI or XAI in short for
continuous monitoring. To learn more about
the characteristics of MLOps level 2 and continuous integration/continuous
delivery and continuous deployment concepts, check the documentation
at the end of the course.