Let's continue with the MLOPs
capabilities of Vertex AI. The next capability is
understanding model behavior, which reveals the why behind
your model and predictions. You can use Vertex Explainable AI to
understand your models outputs for classification and regression tasks. Vertex Explainable AI tells you how much
each feature in the data contributes to the predicted result and
identifies model bias. Vertex Explainable AI is a fully-managed
service on Vertex AI that offers feature based explanations by
integrating feature attributions or feature importance into Vertex AI. Vertex Explainable AI provides
a better understanding of model decision-making feature. Attributions are an explain ability method
that shows you how much each input feature contributed to your model's predictions. And to the model's overall predictive
power by using sampled shapeley integrated gradients and explanation with
ranked area integral or XRAI. When you request predictions, you get
predicted values that are appropriate for your model. When you request explanations, you get the predictions along with
feature attribution information. Explainable AI is built into
multiple Vertex AI services. You can currently get feature
attributions in Vertex AI prediction AutoML tables and
Vertex AI workbench. Feature attribution is supported for
all types of models, both AutoML and custom trained frameworks like tensorflow,
psychic learn, or extra boost and modalities such as images,
text tabular, or video. Vertex Explainable AI offers
three methods to use for feature attributions, sampled shapeley,
integrated gradients and explanation with ranked area integral or
XRAI. Each feature attribution method
is based on shapeley values, which are a cooperative game theory
algorithm that assigns credit to each player in a game for
a particular outcome. Applying shapeley values to ML models
means that each model feature is treated as a player in the game. Vertex Explainable AI assigns
proportional credit to each feature for the outcome of a particular prediction. For a thorough comparison of attribution
methods, see the AI explanations white paper and check the feature-based
explanations documentation. The next MLOPs capability of Vertex AI
is proactively monitoring your model performance by using
Vertex AI model monitoring. A model deployed in production
performs best on prediction when the input data is similar
to the training data. When the input data deviates from
the data used to train the model, the model's performance can deteriorate
even if the model itself hasn't changed. To help you maintain a models performance, Vertex AI provides a host of products
to monitor and govern your models. Vertex AI model monitoring maintains
your model's performance by monitoring the model's prediction
input data for feature skew and drift. Training serving skew occurs when
the feature data distribution and production deviates from the feature data
distribution used to train the model. If the original training
data is available, you can enable skew detection to monitor
your models for training serving skew. Prediction drift occurs when
feature data distribution and production changes
significantly over time. If the original training
data isn't available, you can enable drift detection to monitor
the input data for changes over time. You can enable both skew and drift
detection on Vertex AI model monitoring. But you should consider skew detection if
you provide the original training dataset for your model. Otherwise, you should
enable drift detection. For more information, see introduction
to Vertex AI model monitoring. The next capability is tracking and comparing multiple experiment runs and
analyzing main model metrics. The goal when developing a model for a
problem is to identify the best model for that particular use case. Vertex AI host different products
to monitor and govern your models. For example, you can use Vertex AI
experiments to track, analyze, compare, and search across different
model architectures, different ML frameworks such
as tensorflow, pytorch, or psychic learn, different hyper-parameters
and different training environments. In order to understand the nature
of Vertex AI experiments, let's look at some crucial terms. Recall then artifact is a discrete
entity or piece of data produced and consumed by an ML workflow. A context is used to group artifacts and executions together under a single
queriable and taped category. Context can be used to
represent sets of metadata. An example of a context can
be a run of ML pipeline. Vertex AI experiments is a context in
Vertex ML metadata where an experiment can contain an experiment runs
in addition to an pipeline runs. An experiment run consists of parameters,
summary metrics, time series metrics, artifacts, executions and
Vertex AI resources such as, pipeline job, which is created when users want to run
an ML pipeline on Vertex AI pipelines. Another tool that lets you track,
visualize, and compare ML experiments and share them with your team
is Vertex AI TensorBoard. Open-source TensorBoard,
TB is a Google open-source project for ML experiment visualization. Vertex AI TensorBoard is an enterprise
ready managed version of tensorboard. Executions and artifacts of a pipeline run
are viewable in the Google Cloud Console. Vertex AI TensorBoard provides various
detailed visualizations that include tracking and visualizing metrics,
such as loss and accuracy over time. Visualizing model, computational graphs,
such as OPs and layers. Viewing histograms of weights biases or
other tensors as they change over time. Projecting embeddings to
a lower dimensional space and displaying image text and audio samples. Check out the documentation to learn more
about Vertex AI TensorBoard features and capabilities. You can also simplify your MLOPS processes
with Vertex AI tabular workflows. Vertex AI tabular workflow for end-to-end AutoML is a managed
instance of Vertex AI pipelines. It is a set of integrated, fully managed,
and scalable pipelines for end-to-end ML with tabular data that
uses Google's AutoML technology for model development and providing
customization options to fit your needs. The following are some of the benefits of
tabular workflow for end-to-end AutoML. Supports large datasets that
are multiple terabytes in size. Lets you improve stability and
lower training time by limiting the search space of architecture types or
skipping architecture search. Lets you improve training speed by
manually selecting the hardware used for training and architecture search. Lets you reduce model size and
improve latency with distillation or by changing the ensemble size. Additionally, each AutoML component can
be inspected in a powerful pipelines graph interface that lets you
see the transformed data tables, evaluated model architectures,
and many more details. These AutoML components also
provide extended flexibility and transparency, such as being able
to customize parameters, hardware, view process status, logs, and more. In this section, you learned about
Vertex AI MLOPs tools that help you collaborate across ML teams and improve
your models through predictive model, monitoring, alerting, diagnosis,
and actionable explanations. All of these tools are modular so you can integrate them into your
existing systems as needed. In the next section,
which is the final section of the course, you review the main concepts you
learned throughout this course.