Now, let's explore how vertex AI
can help with MLOps processes. Vertex AI gives you total flexibility and the tools you use to
complete your ML journeys. Vertex AI was designed to automate ML
processes to prevent ML practitioners from starting from the beginning. You can scale your ML models faster and more efficiently with the managed
infrastructure provided by Vertex AI. You can also set up ML environments
quickly, automate orchestration, manage large clusters and
set up low latency applications. Vertex AI provides a range of AI and
ML tools for users of different skill sets
alongside built in MLOps capabilities, which lets enterprises improve insights,
make predictions, and automate core business processes
across their organization. With vertex AI, you can manage and
govern your ML models. Leverage Google cloud manage services
to simplify your MLOps processes, reveal the explanations behind
your models and predictions, monitor your data and
models performance, and track and compare multiple experiment runs and
analyze main model metrics. Let's look at vertex AI's key components
that let you perform those capabilities. Let's start with managing and
governing capabilities. You can manage and govern your ML
models with vertex AI feature store, model registry, ML metadata,
and model evaluation. Manage features, you can use vertex
AI feature store to create and manage features. Vertex AI feature store lets you share and
reuse ML features across use cases, serve ML features at scale with low latency,
and alleviate training serving skew. Manage models, you can use the vertex
AI model registry to manage your ML models and
use vertex ML metadata to track and analyze the metadata produced
by your ML workflows. Vertex AI model registry is a central
repository where you can manage the lifecycle of your ML models. Vertex AI model registry lets you
register, organize, track and version your trained and
deployed ML models, govern the model launch process and maintain model
documentation and reporting. Vertex ML metadata lets you
record the metadata and artifacts produced by your ML system. Therefore, lets you
automatically track inputs and outputs of all components, query
the metadata to help analyze debug and audit the performance of your ML system or
the artifacts that it produces. And visualize, analyze and
compare detailed ML lineage. Evaluate models, you can run model
evaluation in vertex AI in several ways. First, you can create evaluations through
vertex AI model registry in the Google cloud console. Second, you can use the model
evaluation feature from vertex AI as a pipeline component
with vertex AI pipelines. Let's move on to orchestrating
ML workflows capabilities. You can simplify ML operations by
using vertex AI pipelines to automate, monitor, and govern your ML systems. Vertex AI pipelines lets you orchestrate
your ML workflow in a serverless manner. Thanks to Google Cloud's managed
services suite such as BigQuery, vertex training or data flow. ML pipelines are portable and scalable ML
workflows that are based on containers. Therefore, ML practitioners
can iterate faster, get more of their work into production and
work more independently. ML pipelines are composed of a set of
input parameters and a list of steps. Each step is an instance
of a pipeline component. ML pipelines let ML practitioners spend
their time building ML solutions instead of building the infrastructure needed
to get those solutions into production. You can use ML pipelines to apply
MLOps strategies to automate and monitor repeatable processes. Experiment by running an ML workflow
with different sets of hyper parameters, for example,
different number of training steps or iterations, reuse the pipelines
workflow to train a new model. You can use vertex AI
pipelines to run pipelines that were built using the coop flow
pipelines SDK or tensor flow extended. To learn more about choosing between
the coop flow pipelines SDK and TFX check the reading at
the end of the section. After you're satisfied
about your ML workflow, the next step is to understand
your model's behavior. You'll explore that
process in the next video.