Let's explore the three main
phases of a machine learning lifecycle and see how they
map to tasks within MLOps. The first is the
discovery phase, the second one is the
development phase, and the third one is
the deployment phase. The discovery phase
is where the problem is defined and the desired
outcome is identified. Some of the tasks performed in this phase can
be the following. Business use case definition. Identifying the business
need and the desired outcome allows for a clear plan of what a machine learning model
will help achieve. Contextual understanding. The discovery phase
also includes gaining contextual understanding
of the people who are using or may be affected
by the solution. This critical information
can help further define the problem or task that
needs to be solved. Use case feasibility. It's also important to assess whether the
problem that you're trying to solve can actually be solved with machine learning. Let's say that you have
historical data that can't be accessed
during inference time. If that's the case, ML might not be a feasible
option to solve your problem. You'll probably need to perform a more comprehensive analysis
before moving forward. Data accessibility
and data exploration. During this phase,
it's important to determine which
datasets are needed for the ML model and
whether that data is readily available and good
enough to train the model. If external datasets are needed, you must decide how
to acquire them. Architecture and
algorithm selection. Then, depending on the task
that will be performed, the team chooses an architecture and a machine
learning algorithm. Prioritizing use cases. Another aspect of the discovery
phase is prioritizing the different use cases
that the business has as potential ML projects. But this discussion is out of scope for this
particular course. Check the managing machine
learning projects with the Google Cloud course
to learn more about identifying business
value for using ML. The development phase. The second phase of
the machine learning lifecycle is the
development phase. After the feasibility
assessment is complete and you've got the go-ahead,
development can start. However, sometimes
you might see that the development phase starts
during data exploration, which is part of the
discovery phase. Then you might ask
this question, shouldn't we wait
until the results of the feasibility
study are available? However, in reality, even for data exploration and
algorithm selection, some proof of concepts
might need to be developed. That is why the development phase and discovery
phase overlap during the data exploration. It starts with data
pipeline creation and feature engineering. This is when all of the
necessary data is cleaned, extracted, analyzed, and
transformed for us in the model. A data pipeline helps ensure that all data
operations will perform as expected for both
offline and stream data, and avoid data skew. You can visit the data preprocessing for
ML documentation to learn more about
best practices for preprocessing data
in an ML pipeline. After the data is ready model building and model
evaluation begins. The word begins is used here because these steps might
require a couple of iterations until the ML
practitioners are happy with the results
and are ready to present them to the
main stakeholders. Iteration is a central
concept of machine learning. Constant iteration, tuning, and improvement is
often required to ensure that a model
performs as planned. During this phase, it might
be helpful to perform some or all of the
following activities. First, revisit the
model use case. Because the ML algorithm
might not identify data patterns for your use
case in the first iteration, you might want to ensure that the model will still help
you achieve your goal. Revisit the chosen data
set to determine whether the model requires a higher
volume or new features. Data should be revisited because the model either
needs more of it or it needs
additional aspects or new features from
the existing data. Finally, it might be helpful to consider whether additional
data transformations are needed to improve
the model quality or whether a different
algorithm might be better. The deployment phase. The last phase of
the ML lifecycle is the deployment phase. Some of the tasks performed in this phase can
be the following. Plan for deployment. After results are presented
to the stakeholders and all parties are satisfied with the model performance, it's time to plan for
model deployment. This is when the following
questions can arise. Which platform should
host the model? Which ML model serving
tools are needed, and how many nodes are
needed for the cluster to scale the model in a
cost-effective manner? Model operationalization
and monitoring. As previously mentioned,
operationalizing and monitoring a model helps with maintenance and
avoiding model decay. Implementing a
strategy to detect a concept or data drift allows signaling when the model
needs to be retrained or when the data needs to
be adjusted or augmented. Many people could be reliant on your
model's predictions, so it's important to ensure
that your pipeline accounts for all the necessary
health checks and alerts.