Now that you’re familiar with what Vertex
AI is, let’s explore how Vertex AI can help with MLOps processes. If you worked with ML models before, you know
that training and deploying ML models can be time-consuming, because you need to repeatedly
add new data and features, try different models, and tune parameters to achieve the best result. To solve this problem, organizations need
to build the necessary ML engineering culture and capability. If we consider that MLOps is a set of standardized
processes and technology capabilities for building, deploying, and operationalizing
ML systems rapidly and reliably, it can be the answer that you’re looking for in order
to build ML engineering culture and capability. Before we look at workflows and capabilities
needed in each phase of the MLOps lifecycle, let’s explore the MLOps concept in depth: MLOps aims to unify ML system development
or ML with ML system operations or Ops. It advocates automating and monitoring every
step of ML system construction. And finally, it maintains aligned versions
of data and models alongside code and components. At this point, it is fair to ask this question:
How does MLOps achieve each of these goals? To answer this question, it’s important
to understand what ML engineering is and how ML engineering is tightly coupled with data
engineering and app engineering: Let’s start with ML engineering. ML engineering is a superset of the discipline
of software engineering and is designed to handle the unique complexities of the practical
application of ML. MLOps is one of the methodologies adopted
by ML engineering that focuses on operationalization and automation of model development, training,
deployment, and governance processes. To learn more about ML engineering, check
the reading at the end of this section. Let’s continue with data engineering. Data engineering focuses on ingesting, managing,
and processing data to prepare datasets and features. All of these outputs created by data engineering,
datasets and features, can be used in enterprise data warehouses, business intelligence or
BI systems and ML engineering. And finally, there is app engineering. App engineering focuses on designing, developing,
or migrating applications. Deploying ML models and integrating them with
your applications and systems is the main subject of app engineering when you build
an ML application. That means that engineering an ML enabled
solution is an iterative process between the three disciplines:
ML engineering uses the datasets and features produced by the Data Engineering team and
feeds back the data requirements to the Data Engineering team. ML engineering also produces the models deployed
by the App Engineering team, which in turn shares the application’s key performance
indicators, or KPIs, with the ML Engineering team. Therefore, ML engineering should not be performed
in isolation. Instead, it should use existing investments
in DataOps and DevOps and integrate with the data engineering and app engineering to be
effective. By the inspiration of this integration, the
MLOps lifecycle can be divided in six iterative processes, and two cross-cutting processes
in the center: The lifecycle starts with the ML development
process, which is the developing and prototyping process of your ML models. This is mostly the experimentation phase of
ML model development. The second process in the lifecycle is training
operationalization, which refers to checking whether your model works on the production. This includes testing internal and external
data connections and configurations and putting the model routine and a stable operational
phase after the first experimentation phase is performed. Then, in the continuous training process,
you retrain your production models with the new data. Next is the model deployment process, where
actual continuous integration and delivery of your models occurs. The prediction or inference serving process
refers to hosting ML models as services to serve online predictions or as part of a batch
prediction system to serve offline predictions. And continuous monitoring is the final process,
which stands for identifying and predicting model performance degradation, data skews
and outliers. The central element of this lifecycle is data
and model management, which are main functions for governing ML artifacts to support auditability,
traceability, compliance, shareability, reusability, and discoverability of ML assets. An artifact is a discrete entity or piece
of data produced and consumed by an ML workflow, such as datasets, models, input files and
training logs. Note that data and model management processes
are “transitional” phases. With the traditional components of an ML pipeline,
you need to prepare data, perform feature engineering, train and tune the model, upload
and store the model, compare the model to existing model versions, deploy the model,
send prediction requests to the endpoint, present the model to any edge devices, and
then monitor and manage the model. Vertex AI automates some of these steps, such
as data preparation, feature engineering, model serving, and the ability to deploy to
edge devices. Before you see how Vertex AI automates these
steps, let’s first look at the reasons why Vertex AI serves the best in these different
roles. Recall the different users within an organization
that play a part in the ML lifecycle, such as product managers, data analysts and data
engineers. These users have different needs and a comprehensive
platform such as Vertex AI helps all of them thanks to its integration with different Google
Cloud services that experiment with ML model development and quickly deploy solutions. There are four main reasons why Vertex AI
serves the best in these different roles. First it provides a unified data and ML platform. A unified data and ML platform helps to build
tighter connection points between data and ML. Therefore, it helps ML practitioners gain
even greater value when they use all of our services to solve their largest problems. The second, Vertex AI lets ML practitioners
achieve end-to-end MLOps. End-to-end MLOps helps ML practitioners efficiently
and responsibly manage, monitor, govern, and explain ML projects throughout the entire
development lifecycle. Thanks to its ready to use, prebuilt components,
ML practitioners can achieve many ML tasks, including: Creating a new dataset and loading
different data types, such as image, tabular, text, or video into the dataset. Exporting data from a dataset to Cloud Storage. Using BigQuery ML, Vertex AI custom training,
or Vertex AI AutoML to train a model by using image, tabular, text, or video data. Running a custom training job by using a custom
container or a Python package. Uploading an existing model to Vertex AI for
batch or online prediction. And monitoring. These prebuilt components offer easier debugging
and consistent interfaces to use standardized artifact types for input and output and cost
efficiencies. Vertex AI also provides flexibility by delivering
open and scalable ML infrastructure. The flexibility of data resources, ML framework,
and hardware might accelerate the velocity of models into production. And finally, Vertex AI brings all the resources
of Google to open source. In recent years, computing has both expanded
as a field and grown in its importance to society. Similarly, the research conducted at Google
has broadened dramatically. More than 3,000 Google and Deepmind researchers
and more than 7,000 published publications drive better product performance and lower
costs in many Google Cloud services recently. Building the next generation of data to AI,
end-to-end MLOps and scalable infrastructure is happening in 3 phases: Phase 1 was for building a robust
data foundation with services such as Bigtable or Pub/Sub. Phase 2 was for building an ML foundation
with TensorFlow, TensorFlow Extended and Kubeflow. Phase 3 is now for building one
unified AI platform by using many years of
research and academic work. Vertex AI lets you access state-of-the-art
AI algorithms developed by Google research to streamline complex AI use cases with optimized
built-in infrastructure. Vertex AI drives more value from ML with access
to state-of-the-art AI from Google Research and DeepMind and brings together all of Google
Cloud services for building one unified AI platform with every ML tool you need, including
the next generation of data-to-AI tools end-to-end MLOps capabilities, and scalable infrastructure. Vertex AI also integrates with widely used
open source frameworks such as TensorFlow, PyTorch, and scikit-learn, along with supporting
all ML frameworks and AI branches through custom containers for training and prediction.