Now, let's walk through
the phases of developing and publishing a machine learning model. Given all the barriers that
ML practitioners face today, what can be done to mitigate them? One option is to look at machine learning
projects through an operational lens. Operationalizing a model means
balancing time, resources, and quality throughout the whole system. In software engineering,
this approach is called DevOps. That term transfers over to
machine learning as MLOps, which aims to streamline AI and ML projects in the same way that
DevOps does for application projects. Think of MLOps as a lifecycle management
discipline for machine learning. Its goal is a balanced process-driven
approach to the management of resources, data, code, time, and
quality to achieve business objectives and meet regulatory concerns. There are many similarities
between DevOps and MLOps. For example, when software
developers work on a project, they don't all work on the same
code at the same time. Instead, they work on a code
repository and use source control and a branching strategy which helps define
how each feature, improvement, or bug fix of the product is handled. Code repositories and source control
tools provide developers with both the historical record of all tasks which
lets them go back to previous versions, and a space to work on separate tasks
in parallel where they can merge their efforts later. A branching strategy lets multiple
teams work independently and verify that the changes on
each branch do not conflict. One, whenever developers want to make
changes to the source, they download a copy of the code from the code
repository or check out the code in short. Two, the code files appear
in their local directory and let developers use and compile the code. This way they can make
changes to the source and to upload back to the repository later. In short, they complete the task
on a branch in this phase. Three, before the code is
returned to the repository, developers need to check whether
anything changed in the main version. In other words, developers need
to ensure that their changes are made against the latest
version of the code base. Four, before merging their changes,
they also perform unit tests. Five, after developers confirm that
their code behaves as they expected, they give permission to the code
to be merged to the main branch. When these changes are frequently
merged with the main code, the chances of divergence decrease. Branches inevitably diverge, and they diverge exponentially as
they run without integrating. Therefore, how often you
integrate your branches matters. Developers perform mainline integration
when they have a healthy commit they can share, usually less than a day's work. For every push to the repository, it's
very useful to create a set of scripts to build and
test your application automatically. These scripts help decrease the chances
that you introduce errors in your application. This process is called continuous
integration, or CI for short. In a busy development team,
this happens several times a day. Any change in the code base repository,
often triggers a CI pipeline. The pipeline is a series of steps
that starts from checking out the code stage and ends with merging it. Another process favored by developers
is continuous delivery, or continuous deployment,
which depend on the automation level. An important caveat here is
that continuous delivery and continuous deployment are not the same,
although they are both shortened as CD. Both of them refer to a method for
building, testing, and releasing software in short cycles. Done this way, the main development code
is almost always production-ready and can be released into the live
environment at any time. If it is not done this way, the main code
is like a race car with its wheels off and its engines out, it can go fast but
only after it's put back together. The difference between these two terms
is the automation of deployment. Continuous delivery automates
integration or acceptance tests, deployment to staging, and smoke tests. Note that staging refers to
a production-like environment, and smoke tests refers to testing
the application before it is deployed. In continuous delivery, deployment to
the production is still done manually. However, continuous deployment
complements continuous integration with additional steps by automating
the configuration and deployment of the application
to the production environment. Along with continuous integration,
delivery and deployment, data is also an important aspect of MLOps. Unlike conventional software, which performs the same action repeatedly,
an ML model can go off. This means that its predictive power can
wane as data profiles inevitably change. A model deployed in production
will not be able to adapt to changes in data by itself. This requires something called
continuous training, or CT for short. Continuous training is the process
of monitoring, measuring, retraining, and
serving ML models automatically and continuously to adapt to changes in
the data before they're redeployed. MLOps differs from DevOps
in important ways too. Continuous integration is no longer
only about testing and validating coding components, but also about testing and
validating data, data schemas, and models. It's about a whole system,
the ML training pipeline, that automatically deploys another
service, the model prediction service. Uniquely, ML is also concerned
with automatically monitoring, retraining, and serving the models. Another concept that transfers well from
software development to machine learning is technical debt. Technical debt represents the pressure
to prioritize releases over quality, which might mean not paying
close attention to code quality. There's often a compromise between
faster delivery and high quality. Although there might be good
reasons to prioritize the release, developers will still need to go back and
fix things later. Machine learning could arguably be
considered the high-interest credit card of technical debt. This means that developing and deploying
an ML system can be relatively fast and cheap, but maintaining it over time
can be difficult and expensive. The real challenge isn't building
an ML model, the challenge is building an integrated ML system and
operating it in production continuously. Just like a high-interest credit card,
the technical debt with machine learning compounds and can be incredibly
expensive and difficult to pay down. Please check the reading at the end
of this section to learn more about the high-interest credit
card of technical debt. Machine learning systems have
all the operational challenges of software development and
a few of their own. One challenge is
multi-functional team structure. Unlike many business projects which are
usually managed in a single department, ML projects require significant
multi-functional expertise. Another challenge stems from the fact
that ML is experimental in nature, which requires constantly
approaching the data, the models and parameter configuration in new ways. The real challenge comes when ML
practitioners try to track all experiments and metadata while they try to
maintain reproducibility and maximize code reusability. And then there is testing ML systems, which is more complex than
testing other software systems. Because you need to validate data,
parameters, code, and hyper parameters together in a system instead of only
unit-testing methods or functions. In ML systems, deployment isn't as simple
as deploying an offline trained ML model as a prediction service. ML systems might require you to
deploy a multi-step pipeline to automatically retrain and deploy models. And finally, ML systems can present
challenges related to concept drift and model decay. Data profiles constantly change. If something changes in the data input,
the predictive power of the model and production will probably change with it. Therefore, you need to track
summary statistics of your data and monitor the online performance of
your model to send notifications or roll back when values deviate
from your expectations. Drift is the change in
an entity regarding a baseline. With a production ML model, this is the
change between the real-time production data and a baseline data set,
most likely the training set that's representative of the task
the model is intended to perform. To learn more about the several types of
drift in ML models, check the production machine learning systems course
in the Google Cloud catalog. Technical debt accumulates in
an ML system for many reasons. So we'll look at ways to mitigate
that throughout this course.