Welcome to the second section of the machine-learning operations or MLOps Fundamentals course. In this part of the course, you'll be introduced
to vertex AI, Google's unified AI platform. Be introduced to MLOps
on vertex AI and explore how vertex AI
helps the MLOps workflow. If you completed the
Machine Learning on Google Cloud course, you'll recall that building an ML model and taking
it to production requires expertise
in both the workflow and the products required. This includes tools
and services to build, package, deploy, and
monitor a model. Let's recall a few key
constructs in machine learning. First, you create datasets
by ingesting the data, analyzing the data, and cleaning it up. There are different
processes for creating datasets such as
extract, transform, and load or ETL and extract, load, and transform or ELT. In the next step
called model training, you train a model. This includes experimentation
with feature processing, model architecture, and
hyperparameter tuning. You also revert or iterate the model when
there is new data, when the code changes
or based on a schedule. You then evaluate and
compare the model to existing model versions
and finally you deploy the model and use it for
online and batch predictions. Recall that this end-to-end
process is called MLOps, as defined in the
previous section. It's important to note
that the type of data used to train a model will affect
the rest of the pipeline. For example are your data JPEG files
or TensorFlow records? Do you store your data in
Cloud storage or BigQuery? Also, the way you deploy
a TensorFlow model is different from how you
deploy a PyTorch model. Even the model
deployment process might differ based on whether the model is created with AutoML or a custom
TensorFlow model. With so many variables to consider when you create
a machine-learning model, an end-to-end ML platform like vertex AI, brings many benefits. Vertex AI brings together all the Google Cloud services
for building ML and AI in one unified platform
which helps enterprises realized more value with their data and accelerate
time to value. Vertex AI lets you unify certain
parts of an ML workflow. A dataset can either be
structured or unstructured. It could have managed
metadata including annotations and can be stored
anywhere on Google Cloud. This currently includes
Cloud Storage and BigQuery. A training pipeline
consists of steps to train an ML model
by using a dataset. The containerization helps
with generalization, reproducibility,
and auditability. An ML model which consists of metadata can be built with
the training pipeline or it can be directly loaded from other resources as long as it
is in a compatible format. An endpoint can be
invoked by users for online predictions
and explanations. It can have one or more models and one or more versions of those models with disambiguation carried out based
on the request. The main idea is that
these endpoints are the same regardless
of the dataset type, training pipeline, or model. It's all mix and match. After you create a dataset, you can use it for
different models. Please check vertex AI
documentation to learn more about vertex AI because vertex
AI is a unified platform. The user interface can
be used to directly manage the following
stages in the ML workflow, creating a dataset,
and uploading data. Training an ML
model on your data, which includes
training the model, evaluating model accuracy, and tuning hyperparameters
for custom training only, uploading and storing
your model in vertex AI, deploying your trained model to an endpoint for
serving predictions, sending prediction requests
to your end point, specifying a prediction
traffic split in your endpoint and managing
your models and endpoints. Vertex AI is flexible. You can choose either AutoML, which lets you
train a model with minimal technical effort
or custom training which lets you create a
training application that is optimized for your
targeted outcome. In summary, vertex AI offers
fast experimentation, accelerated deployment and
simplified model management to achieve your ML goals. With vertex AI, you have a
platform to experiment with ML model development
and quickly deploy solutions that
will help you meet your machine learning goals. For more information about vertex AI explore
more courses in the ML training catalog at
cloud.google.com/training.